Create Redis sample (#6832)
Particular/docs.particular.net: samples/databus/redis/sample.md

---
title: Redis claim check
summary: Implementing the claim check pattern with Redis
component: Core
reviewed: 2024-09-12
related:
 - nservicebus/messaging/claimcheck
---

This sample shows how to implement the [Claim Check pattern](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/claim-check) with [Redis](https://redis.io/) as a data store.

## Prerequisites

This sample connects to a local Redis instance. See the [Redis guidance for installing a new instance](https://redis.io/docs/latest/get-started/).

Alternatively with Docker installed locally, execute the following command in the solution directory:

```bash
docker compose up -d
```

## Overview

```mermaid
graph LR
  Sender --"1. Write data"--> Redis
  Sender --"2. Send message"--> Receiver
  Receiver --"3. Retrieve data"-->Redis
```

1. The Sender endpoint generates data and stores it in the Redis instance
1. The Sender endpoint sends a message with the Redis key to the Receiver endpoint
1. The Receiver endpoint retrieves the data from the Redis instance using the key in the message

## Running the project

> 1. Run a Redis instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Run a Redis instance](https://redis.io/learn/operate/orchestration/docker).
```

1. Run the Sender endpoint to generate data and send a message to the Receiver endpoint.
1. Run the Receiver endpoint to process the message.

## Code walkthrough

> The solution contains a claim check implementation that writes to and reads from Redis.

Author: I'm not sure that is making things more clear. The snippet being referenced has a class that implements `IClaimCheck` with a reader and writer method on it. It has nothing to do with the endpoints at this stage.

snippet: claim-check

> Each endpoint is configured to use the Redis claim check. The conventions are updated to tell NServiceBus which properties should have the claim check applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each endpoint is configured to use the Redis claim check. The conventions are updated to configure NServiceBus to understand which properties should have the claim check applied.
```

snippet: configure-claim-check

> When the Sender endpoint starts, a random string is generated and assigned to a property on the message. NServiceBus transparently places the data in Redis and sends the message without this large property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Sender endpoint starts, a random string is generated and assigned to the property `LargeText` on the message. NServiceBus transparently stores the data in Redis and sends the message without this large property.
```

snippet: send-message

> On the receiving side, NServiceBus restores the data from Redis before the message handler is called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the receiving side, NServiceBus loads the data from Redis before the message handler is called. When the handler is invoked, the `LargeText`-property is populated with the data from Redis.
```
